Kenya Orient Insurance Ltd 
 &
PATA BIMA INSURANCE AGENCY LTD.  
Binder Terms
THIS AGREEMENT IS MADE ON THE
10th MARCH 2021
Between
KENYA ORIENT INSURANCE LIMITED of Post Office Box No 34530 - 00100, NAIROBI, and whose registered Office is at Capitol Hill Towers, 6th Floor, Cathedral Road, Nairobi (hereinafter referred to as KOIL on the one hand) 
And
PATA BIMA INSURANCE AGENCY LTD of Post Office Box 64320 -00100 Nairobi and whose registered office is at, NCPB GODOWNS LUNGA LUNGA ROAD, Nairobi, Kenya (hereinafter referred to as ‘PATA BIMA ’ on the other.) 
Whereas PATA BIMA INSURANCE AGENCY LTD  placing Motor Private Car Insurance, Motor Commercial Vehicle Insurance (Own Goods & General Cartage), Orient Commercial Insurance, Motor PSV (Private Hire & School Bus) and Non-Motor Insurance Packages such as Personal Accident, Orient Home, Orient Business (hereinafter referred to as   “The Binder”) with KOIL  
And Whereas KOIL is desirous of providing insurance coverage to The Binder in accordance with the terms and conditions stipulated under Clause 13 hereof. 
Now both parties have hereto agreed to enter into a contractual relationship under the terms and conditions set out herein-below -: 
KENYA ORIENT INSURANCE LTD.        	 	PATA BIMA INSURANCE AGENCY LTD.
   …………………………………………………        		………………..…………………………………
 1.  THE MAIN OBJECTIVE  
 The main objective of this agreement is to set forth the special provisions that shall be incorporated in the terms of the policy document that will be taken out under the subject Motor Vehicle Insurance Covers and Non-motor covers and also to provide guidelines to be followed by the two parties herein during the continuity of this agreement.  
2.  EFFECTIVE DATE  
This scheme is effective on the 3rd March 2021, and renews automatically on every 1st day of March, “The Anniversary Date”.  
Any party desiring to introduce any changes in the contract can do a proposal for the same to the other at least 30 days to the renewal date. Such changes will be discussed by both parties and adopted where agreed upon or dropped if not agreed upon.  
Deliberations must be concluded at least 14 days before the renewal date, failing which all terms and conditions will be retained as per agreement.  
3.  INSURING TERMS  
The relevant standard policies ordinarily issued by Kenya Orient shall be deemed to be amended to provide for the terms and conditions provided under Clause 13.  
4.  PROPOSAL FORMS  
 Where the Insured’s have not completed Kenya Orient formal proposal forms, they will be deemed to have proposed to Kenya Orient by means of PATA BIMA’s risk note which shall form the basis of the contract.  
5.  INSURANCE DOCUMENTS  
PATA BIMA shall issue Risk Notes as proof of every insurance cover arranged under the Scheme. Such document(s) shall bear the name of the person in whose name the insurance is arranged (herein severally referred to as “the insured”) and the accounting policy number allocated under (6. e) below. 
Documents referred to under sub-clause 5.a above and 5.c below shall be signed by an authorized officer of PATA BIMA for and on behalf of Kenya Orient and names of authorized signatories and their specimen signatures shall be provided to Kenya Orient. Kenya Orient shall at all times be notified of any change in respect of the said signatories not later than seven days from the effective date of such change.  
For purposes of sub-clause 5.a and 5.b above, Kenya Orient shall allow PATA BIMA to have custody of blank motor insurance certificates for issuance to clients on behalf of Kenya Orient   provided that PATA BIMA  shall at all times keep all unused motor insurance certificates secure and that;  
The specific conditions set under item 6 c of the Binder Agreement strictly observed.
Any loss and/or misplacement of certificate(s) must be reported to Kenya Orient in writing immediately it is discovered.  
On each class of motor the certificates shall be issued under the series of policy numbers Allocated under the binder agreement sub clause 6 e.  
Once a certificate is issued the details shall be entered in the certificate declaration/return form which shall be available for inspection by our staff at any time. Submission of the completed form shall be done in accordance to clause 7.  
Replenishment of certificates with new series shall be subject to provision of fully completed declaration form and confirmation that all entries have matching debit  
Not more than two extension certificate should be issued within a policy period i.e. only two extension certificates should be allowed otherwise extra extension certificates shall be charged at 250/= per certificate. 
Short period covers are excluded from the scheme. 
KENYA ORIENT shall issue master policy documents whose terms and conditions shall apply to all persons insured under this binder and the originals of the policy documents shall be in the custody of PATA BIMA INSURANCE AGENCY LTD throughout the duration of the contract.  
For purposes of accounting KENYA ORIENT shall allocate series of policy numbers to PATA BIMA INSURANCE AGENCY LTD under which cover for the individual persons or entities shall be issued and correspondence debits raised by Kenya Orient on receipt of the monthly schedule / bordereaux as provided under clause 7.  
PATA BIMA INSURANCE AGENCY LTD may request KENYA ORIENT to issue individual policy documents where a special need arise.  
The policies to be issued in accordance with Clause 6.d hereof shall be deemed to be an integral part of this Agreement and shall be denoted as appendices as shown here below-:  
Anti- Money Laundering- In pursuance to compliance with requirements under the Anti-Money Laundering Act clients shall have to complete the proposal forms and provide a copy of log book, PIN and ID which should be submitted with the risk notes. 
6.  MONTHLY REPORTS
PATA BIMA INSURANCE AGENCY LTD shall provide a monthly schedule/ bordereaux of all new and renewal business to KENYA ORIENT. Such schedule /bordereaux to reach KENYA ORIENT not later than the 10th day of the month following the month that cover attached. Upon this submission, KENYA ORIENT shall raise the relevant debit notes & credit notes. PATA BIMA INSURANCE AGENCY LTD shall also provide on monthly basis the motor certificate declaration form completed up to the last series used as provided under clause 6 (iv) along with any set declared as spoilt certificate.  
7.  PREMIUM PAYMENT  
 PATA BIMA INSURANCE AGENCY LTD shall forward premium payment with attaching schedule of policies being paid for not later than the 30th day of the month following that on which cover attached. 
8.  DISCRETION TO ACCEPT OR TO DECLINE RISK  
Kenya Orient reserves the right to reject a new risk or the renewal of an old risk placed by the broker under the scheme without giving reasons for such rejection provided that such rejection is communicated to the broker as soon as the decision of such rejection is made.  
9. AMENDMENTS  
Any amendment to this agreement including the insuring terms shall not become effective unless they are mutually agreed upon and a relevant memorandum of amendments executed by both parties. Where mutual agreement is not attained KENYA ORIENT shall have the final right to incorporate revised or new terms provided that PATA BIMA INSURANCE AGENCY LTD is notified 30 days in advance of the decision. 
10. TERMINATION  
This agreement may be terminated-:  
By mutual consent of both parties or  
By either party giving Thirty (30) days’ notice to the other of their intension to Terminate.  
Where such termination is effected, the insurance covers in force will be allowed to run off without renewal upon their expiry and PATA BIMA INSURANCE AGENCY LTD shall reserve all rights regarding the clients’ insurances.  
PRODUCT PROPOSITION (MOTOR AND NON MOTOR)
We propose to partner on the following products which we believe are competitively priced at the widest coverage.
(i) STANDARD MOTOR PRODUCTS
MOTOR PRIVATE (STANDARD)
Excess
Free Limits
MOTOR THIRD PARTY COVER
MOTOR COMMERCIAL (STANDARD)
Excess
Free Limits
PSV CHAUFFER DRIVEN & TOUR VANS
Limits of Liability & Excess as per Motor Commercial (standard) above
ORIENT SCHOOL BUS
Free Limits
Limits of Liability & Excess as per Motor Commercial (standard) above
PSV SELF-DRIVE
Limits of Liability & Excess as per Motor Commercial standard) above NB; Cover excludes theft by hirer
PSV ASSET
Limits of Liability & Excess as per Motor Commercial (standard) above 
Excess
Requirements for Insuring All Motor Vehicles
Valuation will be mandatory for all new business. The Insured will be required to present the vehicle to our appointed valuer within fourteen (14) days of going on cover.
Newly proposed vehicles will require to be valued for insurance purposes even where a financial valuation had already been done.
Where the vehicle is not presented for valuation within this stipulated duration the coverage issued will automatically reduce to Third party only.
Windscreen Cover will take effect after valuation of the vehicle and on receipt of the report confirming ‘No Crack’ in the windscreen
Mandatory Information & Compliance with the Law
The following client information shall be mandatory to facilitate issuance of cover ( motor certificate)
: Copy of the Insured’s Personal Identification Number (PIN), National Identity Number (ID) and Mobile Number
The following documents should be attached on each proposal form / risk note:- 
Copy of the vehicle Logbook & Copy of the Insured’s Driving License
Where the logbook has not been transferred to the Insured’s name it is now a mandatory requirement that the transfer is effected within three (3) months from the date of cover inception. A copy of the duly transferred logbook must be presented to us to facilitate issuance of the final insurance certificate.
All Motor vehicles must be fitted with an operational anti-theft device (ATD) and a copy of the ATD installation certificate filed with us failure to which an excess equivalent to 20% of value Minimum Ksh. 20,000 shall apply in the event of a theft.
General Terms for Acceptability of Vehicles on Comprehensive Basis
Maximum Age of vehicle (Motor Private & Motor Commercial) – Fifteen (15) years.
Agreed Value Basis – This will be applicable only for private vehicles up to ten (10) Years old subject to valuation by our appointed valuer.
Rare Models – These will attract a higher premium rate of 1% above the standard rate. A listing of rare models will be availed and updated from time to time.
Minimum Sum Insured – KES. 400,000.
Written Off Vehicles – We shall not insure vehicles that had been previously written off even if they have been satisfactorily repaired.
Miraa Vehicles – We shall insure only Pickups & Land cruisers under this category of as per the following terms:
Proboxes, Succeed, Sienta & Wish – This category of vehicles will be accepted on Comprehensive basis subject to:
Duly signed Declaration for Use witnessed by an Advocate / Commissioner of Oaths
Premium Rate – We will charge 1% above the applicable Comprehensive rate. 
(iii) NON MOTOR PRODUCTS
Orient Home Insurance 
Whether you’re living in your house or renting one, Orient Home is an Insurance cover designed just for you. Protect your house- and your possessions against Theft, Fire, Water damage and other unforeseen circumstances.
For Contents ‘classified’ values are allowed e.g. Furniture, Kitchen Contents, and Clothes. All Risks items should be listed. (Serial Number, Make and Model)
Orient Personal Accident 
Orient Personal accident provides cash benefit in the event you sustain bodily injury caused by violent, accidental, external and visible means that results in the hospitalization or disability and cash benefit in the event of death. This cover will also reimburse medical or evacuation expenses incurred up to a given limit
Benefits Schedule
Orient Personal Accident- Students: Age - School Going (3 years and above)
Benefits Schedule
Orient Business
It’s an insurance cover for declared stocks, business equipment and property against risks of fire & lightning, burglary, public liability, political risk and acts of terrorism and All risks (where applicable). In addition, it covers two of your employees for accidental injury, illness or death contracted in the course of employment. If you own a small and medium enterprise this policy is best suited just for you being a combination of different policies with unique benefits at low premiums. 
Scope of Cover
Fire & Burglary with Political risks for business stock/ equipment/ machinery
WIBA for 2 employees earning a maximum of KES 10,000 each per month. Additional employees will be charged a premium of KES 500 each.
Public Liability: KES 1M
Fidelity Guarantee: Any one event = KES 15,000; Overall annual limit = KES 30,000.
All Risks Cover – 1% of the Value of Items Insured (Cover is Optional).
The premium for the above bundle of products is 1.5% of the value of the stock/ machinery/ equipment. 
None of the above covers are optional except for ALL RISKS COVER. 
Minimum premium: KES 1,500 + levies   Maximum sum insured of KES 5M
Orient Marine Cargo
Orient Marine Cargo Insurance offers complete financial protection for carriage of goods by sea, air, road or rail. The policy covers individual shipments from named starting point to named final destination point and will compensate the assured for loss or damage to cargo during transit. 
This cover does not cover loss, damage, liability, destruction, cost or expense of any nature directly or indirectly caused by or contributed by or arising from any of the following:
Consequential loss/delay exclusion
Cyber-attacks exclusion clause
Willful misconduct of the insured
Ordinary leakage
Unseaworthiness
Inherent Vice of the subject matter
Rusting, Discoloration, Oxidation, breakages, Scratching, brattling, Denting etc.
Basic Premium Rate & Deductible
Optional Extensions
Concealed Loss Damage 	0.15%
Trans-shipment 	0.15%	
Container Cover 	Damage or Loss of hired container subject to the 
following maximum limits: 20ft Container – 
KES. 250,000 and 40ft Container KES. 350,000
Additional premium rate – 2.5% of value of container
Service Benchmark / Turnaround Times 
	Underwriting
Claims
CLAIMS HANDLING PROCEDURES
NOTIFICATION
Upon being notified of any circumstances likely to give rise to a claim, PATA BIMA INSURANCE AGENCY LTD shall make thorough enquiry of such circumstances from the insured and thereafter notify KENYA ORIENT as soon as practically possible. 
PATA BIMA INSURANCE AGENCY LTD will then endeavor to obtain the relevant documents to support the claim and submit the same to KENYA ORIENT.
APPOINTMENT OF LOSS ADJUSTMENT AGENTS 
In the event of non-motor claim, KENYA ORIENT will appoint a professional loss adjustment agent (i.e. Loss adjuster, Loss Assessor or Investigator) Provided that such appointment is made within one working day of notification of the claim. 
 With respect to Motor Insurance claims, PATA BIMA INSURANCE AGENCY LTD shall advise the insured to take the vehicle to KOIL assessment Centre and appoint a garage from a panel to be provided by KENYA ORIENT. The internal assessor will submit the assessment report and an authority letter will be issued to the garage to commence repairs within 48 hours provided the Insured has availed a duly completed claim form, police abstract and a copy of the driver’s license. 
MOTOR VEHICLE THEFT CLAIMS 
To allow for proper investigation of Motor Theft Claims, settlement may be delayed 
for 30 days from the date of notification upon the expiry of which and if the vehicle 
is not recovered, a Claim Discharge Voucher must be issued within 5 working days. 
CLAIM SETTLEMENT
KENYA ORIENT undertakes to settle any admissible claims within 30 days of receipt of a Claim Acceptance Form or Discharge Voucher duly executed by the insured or their legal representative.
Signed this 24th Day of March 2021
            On Behalf of KENYA ORIENT INSURANCE LTD
On Behalf of PATA BIMA NSURANCE AGENCY LTD  