




SERVICE LEVEL AGREEMENT

FOR

PROVISION OF AGENCY INSURANCE SERVICES



                                                                                  BETWEEN



                                                                   GA INSURANCE LIMITED


                                                                  


&



PATABIMA AGENCY LIMITED 
                                      

                                                      






   
   
   This Service Level Agreement is made on this …1st …………… day of …………SEPTEMBER………………………………… 2020…..
   
BETWEEN

GA INSURANCE LIMITED of P.O. Box 42166-00100, Nairobi whose registered office is at GA Insurance House, Ralph Bunche Road, Nairobi (hereinafter referred to as the “Insurer” which expression shall where the context so admits include the Insurer’s successors and assigns) of the one part;
   
   AND
   
PATABIMA AGENCY LIMITED of P.O. Box 44563 00100, Nairobi whose registered office is at 	Ambank House, 13th floor, University Way, Nairobi 
(Herein after referred to as the “Agency” which expression shall where the context so admits include the Agency’s successors and assigns) of the other part.
WHEREAS:
	
A. The Insurer in the business of underwriting and providing various insurance and related products.

B. The Agent is duly licensed by the Insurance Regulatory Authority to carry out the services of selling insurance policies for and on behalf of underwriters.

C. The Insurer wishes to appoint and contract the Agency and hereby appoints and contracts the Agency to provide services hereinafter defined on behalf of the Insurer as it may from time to time offer and provide.

D. The Agency, having represented to the Insurer that it has the requisite skills, experience, capability, all necessary personnel and facilities and is competent to provide the services, is willing and has accepted the appointment.

E. The Insurer has reviewed the Agency’s capabilities and is satisfied on its ability to offer the services envisaged.

F. The Insurer and the Agency (each a "Party" or collectively the "Parties") now wish to enter into this Agreement to set out the rights and obligations of each party under the arrangement. 

In consideration of the mutual promises and covenants herein stated and for other good and valuable consideration, the Parties hereto agree as follows:






1. DEFINITIONS 

In this Agreement unless the context otherwise requires, the following words and expressions shall have the following meanings: -

1.1 “Agreement” means this agreement and its schedules as the same may be amended, modified or supplemented from time to time in accordance with the provisions of this agreement.

1.2 “Agreement Period” shall mean the initial period of one (1) year from the Effective Date unless earlier terminated. The contract shall subject to satisfactory annual review automatically renew for further renewal periods of twelve (12) months subject to the right of either party to terminate the agreement as provided in this Agreement.


1.3 “Commissions” means the consideration payable to the Agency for soliciting and procuring insurance business for the Insurer, as agreed.

1.4 “Customer (s)” means all users of the insurance products provided by the Insurer.

1.5 “Effective Date” means the 1st of September 2020.

1.6 “Premium” means the consideration for granting a policy and any definition as defined in the Insurance Act.

1.7 “Services” means the soliciting and procuring of insurance contracts by the Agency on behalf of the insurer and such after sales service in respect of those insurance contracts.

1.8 “Regulator” means the Central Bank of Kenya, the Insurance Regulatory Authority and any other relevant regulatory body enacted in accordance with the laws of Kenya from time to time. 

2. AGREEMENT

It is now agreed between the Parties as follows: -

2.1 Appointment

2.1.1 The Insurer appoints the Agency to offer the services that the Agency is specifically authorised to offer under this Agreement on behalf of the Insurer for the duration of the Agreement Period.  

2.1.2 It is understood by the Parties that the Agency shall not hold out itself as an agent or representative of the Insurer save as expressly authorized by this Agreement. The Agency shall ensure that it conforms to all the laws, rules, regulations and statutory requirements existing in the Republic of Kenya from time to time.



2.2 Non-exclusivity

The Insurer acknowledges that the Agency has entered into this contract on a non-exclusive basis and may from time to time contract other insurance companies for the provision of similar services. 

3. SERVICE PERFORMANCE REVIEWS

The Bancassurance Manager of the Insurer and the Principal Officer of the Agency or any other duly appointed official of the two parties shall be responsible for facilitating regular service performance and annual reviews of the services as envisaged in this document. Any adjustments and/or improvements required for successful implementation of this Agreement will be mutually agreed during the service performance review meetings, subsequently documented, approved by the designated signatories to this agreement and communicated to all affected parties. All amendments to this Agreement shall be effected as provided for herein.

4. RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE AGENCY

The Agency shall be required to comply with the following obligations in addition to all other obligations set out under this Agreement: -

4.1 The Agency shall prospect, source and vet new business then it shall procure and transmit applications for insurance policies to the Insurer for insurance placement. 
4.2 The Agency shall issue a risk note as proof of every insurance cover arranged under this Agreement. Such document(s) shall bear the name of the person in whose name the insurance is arranged (herein referred to as “the insured”), the interests and limits covered and the scope of cover. All the required fields in the risk note shall be filled in by the Agency on behalf of the Insurer for facilitating claim and underwriting processes. The risk note shall be signed by an authorized officer of the Agency for and on behalf of the Insurer. The risk note issued by the Agency shall form the basis of the contract between the insured and the Insurer in the absence of a formal proposal form.

4.3 The Agency shall submit to the Insurer a list of authorized signatories, contact persons and their specimen signatures and the Insurer shall at all times be notified of any change in the number and /or names of the authorized signatories not later than Seven (7) days from the effective date of such change.

4.4 The Agency shall at all times keep all blank documents provided by the Insurer in safe custody, preferably in a locked safe, whilst their offices are closed for business.

4.5 The agency shall keep custody of the originals of the master policies issued by the Insurer covering all persons and risks insured under this scheme throughout the duration of the Agreement. 

4.6 The Agency may request the Insurer, where need arises, to issue individual policies for clients that may require separate policies to be tailor-made and/or issued to cover various risks.

4.7 The Agency shall via email, in writing or by phone report any loss/claim to the Insurer and shall provide ALL the relevant claim supporting documents to the Insurer soon after reporting the loss/ claim. Where any documentation expected to be supplied by the insured to the Agency is lacking, the Agency shall procure the same through follow-up from the insured within fourteen (14) days and supply the same to the Insurer within a further seven (7) days failure to which, the Insurer may elect to decline the claim. The Agency shall provide after sales services in respect of the insurance contracts procured.

4.8 The Agency shall conform to all applicable laws, regulatory guidelines and the Insurer’s guidelines that will be in force from time to time. 
4.9 The Agency shall promote the business and interests of the Insurer as contemplated by this Agreement and articulate the benefits of the products to policy holders.

4.10 The Agency shall not engage in conduct that may compromise or call into question the integrity of the Insurer.

4.11 The Agency shall deliver all requisite proposals, application documents, risk notes, asset valuations (including motor and property valuations for bank financed clients) and premium payments to the Insurer. 

4.12 The Agency shall deliver to the Insurer such proof and documents of any loss or other evidence of claim as is presented and filed by the insured or his beneficiary, or any claimant, immediately upon receipt thereof but within a reasonable time, but not later than Twenty One (21) days from the date of being notified of the loss by the policyholder. Exceptional circumstances necessitating notification of losses beyond the agreed period will be specifically discussed with the Insurer on a case by case basis.

4.13 The Agency shall not publish any advertisement, issue circulars or write any letter to any publication concerning the Insurer without the written approval from the Insurer.

4.14 The Agency shall organize for the training of potential customers and may seek support from the Insurer where necessary.

5. RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE INSURER. 

The Insurer shall be required to comply with the following obligations in addition to all other obligations set out under this Agreement: -

5.1 The Insurer shall issue master policies which will cover all persons insured under various schemes covered by this agreement. Any changes to the terms of the negotiated Insurance schemes will be discussed and mutually agreed and thereafter effected after an agreed notice period of not less than 30 days.

5.2 To remit all due and outstanding commissions directly to the Agency’s account as advised before the close of business on the 15th day of every subsequent month for all insurance business for which the Agency has submitted completed proposal forms, risk notes, asset valuations and premiums by the 5TH day of that month. The Insurer shall at all times comply and be bound by the Insurance Act (Chapter 487) and all other enabling statutes thereof as amended from time to time.  

5.3 The Insurer shall underwrite all risks it has approved as laid down in the various insurance policies offered.

5.4 The Insurer shall notify the Agency of any new Insurance guidelines and amendments made to the existing guidelines from time to time, following appropriate consultation and the agreed new guidelines to be effected after a 30 days’ notice period.

5.5 The Insurer shall not publish any advertisements, issue circulars or write any letter to any publication concerning the Insurance Agency without the written approval from the Agency.

5.6 The Insurer will be expected to process all claims promptly as per the following procedure and without any undue delay, but within the following time limits: -

5.6.1 The Insurer shall register a loss/ claim immediately the Agency notifies it of the incident and shall acknowledge the claim’s notification via email and advise the Agency of the claim reference number.
 
5.6.2 In the event of a claim, the Insurer will appoint a professional loss adjuster or assessor from a panel approved by the Insurer and such appointment is made immediately upon request and on provision of adequate / appropriate details and that the Agency will immediately be advised of the persons so appointed. Such appointments shall be made to all such adjusters and assessors in an equitable basis where the relevant documents to support the claim have been availed.

5.6.3 The Insurer will ensure that authority is given to repairers and garages as soon as possible upon receipt of the necessary claim supporting documents and not later than Two (2) days from date of receipt of such documents. 

5.6.4 In the event of any challenges leading to delay in giving repair authority, the Insurer will notify the Agency immediately and agree on the way forward.

5.6.5 It is mutually agreed between the parties that there may be a delay in settlement of claims relating to theft to allow for proper investigation of such claims; the delay shall, however, not be more than Thirty (30) days from the date of notification of such claims. Both parties agree that, every effort shall be made towards finalizing the requisite investigation within the shortest time possible and that, upon receipt and verification of investigation report and full documentation, a discharge voucher will be issued within seven (7) days.  Where delays are encountered due to other intervening factors, the Agency shall be notified by the Insurer. 

5.6.6 The Insurer will regularly update the Agency of the progress and status of each claim.

5.6.7 Discharge vouchers must reach the Agency within two (2) working days from the date on which all requisite supporting documents are submitted to the Insurer.

5.6.8 All claims’ settlement advices (cheques, Electronic Funds Transfer or Real Time Gross Settlement) must reach the Agency within five (5) working days from the date on which the duly signed discharge vouchers are submitted to the Insurer. Where the claim is to be settled using the Electronic Funds Transfer or Real Time Gross Settlement method, documents evidencing the transfer must be provided within the specified period.

6. COMMISSIONS AND CONSIDERATION

6.1. The commission payable by the Insurer for the services rendered by the Agency shall be calculated on the basis of the agreed rate percent of premium per insurance policy in line with the applicable maximums as per the Insurance Act as outlined in schedule I. The commission will be retained by the Agency as income when the monthly premium transfers are effected. 

6.2. The review of the commission payable hereunder shall be by mutual consent but shall in no case exceed those prescribed under the Insurance Act cap 487. Any such review will however not apply retrospectively. Such variation to the rates of commission that has the net effect of reduction will not be accepted by the Agency unless such variation is solely to comply with the laws of Kenya. 


7. 	Termination

7.1 Without prejudice to any rights of the Parties, either Party may terminate this agreement upon service of a written thirty (30) days’ notice of Termination on the other Party.

7.2 This Agreement shall terminate forthwith upon occurrence of any of the following events: -

7.2.1 If either Party materially breaches this Agreement and, with respect to any material breach that is capable of cure, fails to cure such breach within 30 days of receiving written notice of such breach.

7.2.2 If either Party becomes bankrupt or insolvent or convenes a meeting of or makes or proposes to make any arrangement or composition with its creditors or has a liquidator, receiver, administrator, manager, trustee or similar officer appointed over any of its assets or is either compulsory or voluntarily wound up; or 

7.2.3 If either Party ceases or threatens to cease to carry on the business for which this agreement was entered into or for whatever reason.

7.3 The rights to terminate this agreement given by this clause shall be without prejudice to any other right or remedy of either Party under the Agreement. 

7.4 This Agreement shall survive termination for purposes of enforcement of any accrued rights of the other Party or enforcing any breaches thereof.

8. CONSEQUENCES OF TERMINATION

8.1 Each Party shall within fourteen (14) days of termination return to the other Party any materials that have been supplied by such Party to the other. 

8.2 Each Party shall within fourteen (14) days of termination reconcile its accounts and pay monies owed to the other Party. Neither the expiration nor termination of this Agreement will relieve either Party of any obligations that were incurred prior to such expiration or termination, including, without limitation, the Agency’s obligation to pay accruing premium or Insurance Company’s obligation to pay the commissions and administration costs and expenses that are then due and owing.





9. DISPUTE RESOLUTION

The Parties shall use their best efforts to amicably settle any dispute or claim, arising out of or in connection with this Agreement (including any question regarding its interpretation, existence, validity or termination). In the event of any dispute or claim, whether based on contract or tort, arising out of or in connection with this Agreement, the Parties will endeavour to resolve such dispute through good faith negotiations as follows:

9.1 	The Parties’ representatives will attempt to resolve the matter within fourteen (14) days of the matter being referred to them, or such other period as shall be agreed between the parties.

9.2 	If the matter is not resolved under the provisions of 9.1 above, the matter will be referred to the Parties’ principal officers or their duly appointed representatives, who will attempt to resolve the matter within a further period of seven (7) days, or such other period as shall be agreed between the parties;

9.3 	If the matter is not resolved under the provisions of 9.2 above, the matter shall be referred to arbitration by a single arbitrator to be appointed by agreement between the Parties or in default of such agreement within fourteen (14) days of the notification of a dispute, upon the application of either Party, by the Chairman for the time being of the Kenya Branch of the Chartered Institute of Arbitration. Such arbitration shall be conducted under the provisions of the Rules of the Chartered Institute of Arbitrators (Kenya Branch) and where any matter is not covered by such Rules, the provisions of the Arbitration Act 1995, Laws of Kenya (or any such legislation as may succeed this Act) shall apply. Save for the arbitral award, each party shall bear its own costs in relation to the arbitration proceedings. The language of the arbitration shall be English.

10. FORCE MAJEURE

10.1	In the event that either Party is prevented from performing any of its obligations under this agreement due to an act of God, fire, flood, war, terrorism, failure of public utilities, injunction or act, exercise, assertion or requirement of any governmental authority, epidemic, public health emergency, destruction of facilities, insurrection, inability to obtain labour, materials, equipment, transportation or energy sufficient to meet needs or any other cause beyond the reasonable control of the Party, then the affected Party’s failure to perform will be excused and the time for performance will be extended for the period of delay caused by the occurrence of the force majeure event, provided that such Party has used reasonable efforts to avoid the occurrence of the force majeure event and to minimize its duration, and provided, further, that such Party has given prompt written notice of the occurrence of a force majeure event to the other Party.  

10.2 	The affected Party shall make commercially reasonable efforts to resume performance of its obligations under this Agreement as soon as possible and to whatever extent possible, including, without limitation, through the implementation of workaround plans or disaster recovery plans.

10.3	Not later than ten (10) days, as a result of an event of force majeure, a Party has become unable to discharge a material portion of its obligations, the Parties shall consult with each other with a view to agreeing on appropriate measures to be taken in the circumstances.

11. CONFIDENTIALITY

11.1	Each Party undertakes not to divulge at any time during the course of (including during negotiations) or following termination of the Agreement any confidential information relating to the services, business or affairs of the other Party to any third party without the consent of the other Party save as is necessary for the proper performance of its duties hereunder or as is required by law.  In the event that a Party is required by law, regulation or court order to disclose any confidential information, a party shall notify the party to whom the confidential information belongs of this requirement and shall restrict its disclosure to only the portion of confidential information required.  The disclosing party shall exercise all reasonable efforts to obtain reliable assurance that confidential treatment will be accorded to the confidential information so disclosed.

11.2	Each Party may disclose the confidential information to its’ employees as may be reasonably necessary or desirable provided that before any such disclosure shall be made such employees are aware of the obligations of confidentiality under the Agreement and shall at all times procure compliance by such employees therewith.

12. INDEMNITY

12.1	Each Party shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless the other, and its officers, directors, employees and agents, from and against all liability, loss, cost or expense (including advocate’s costs) by reason of liability imposed upon the indemnified Party, arising out of or related to the this Agreement, whether caused by or contributed to by the indemnified Party or any other party indemnified herein, unless caused by the sole negligence of the Indemnified Party.

12.2	Save as expressly stated, neither Party shall be liable to the other for any special, consequential or indirect damages arising out of or in connection with the contract.

12.3	Without prejudice to the foregoing, any reasonable and justifiable costs and/or damages incurred by the Agency in connection with any legal proceedings brought against the Agency will be borne by the Insurance Company in so far as the proceedings relate to business placed by the Agency with the Company and if it has been proven beyond reasonable doubt, of the liability of the Insurance Company for the costs and/or damages.

12.4	Similarly, without prejudice to the foregoing, any reasonable and justifiable costs and/or damages incurred by the Insurance Company in connection with any legal proceedings brought against the Insurance Company will be borne by the Agency in so far as the proceedings relate to business placed by the Agency with the Company and if it has been proven beyond reasonable doubt, of the liability of the Agency for the costs and/or damages and the non-liability or negligence of the Insurance Company.



13. NOTICES AND SERVICE

13.1		Any notice or other information required or authorised by this Agreement to be given by either party to the other shall be in writing and be given by hand or sent (by registered post) to the other party at the address referred to in page 1 of this agreement or such other address as either party may from time to time notify the other party.

13.2	Any notice or other information sent by cable, facsimile transmission, e-mail or comparable means of communication shall be deemed to have been duly sent on the date of transmission, provided that a confirming copy is sent by registered post, official mail or hand-delivered to the other party at the address referred to in page 1 of this agreement within 24 hours after transmission.

14.	GOVERNING LAW

This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the substantive laws of the Republic of Kenya. 

15.	ACCESS TO INFORMATION

The Parties acknowledge that the Regulator shall have the right of access to the premises of the Parties as well as details of their services, products, documents or any information in respect of the services/ products and also where necessary supervise the party’s activities in accordance with the existing laws. 

15. 
16. GENERAL

15 
16 
16.1 Nothing contained in this agreement shall be construed to create the relationship of employer and employee between the Insurer and the Agency;

16.2 The failure of either party to enforce or to exercise at any time or for any period any term of or any right pursuant to this Agreement shall not be construed as a waiver of any term or right and shall in no way affect that party’s right later to enforce or exercise it.

16.3 This Agreement constitutes the entire Agreement and understanding of the Parties and supersedes any previous Agreement between the Parties relating to the subject matter of this Agreement. 

16.4 The Parties agree that neither of them has been induced to enter into any contract in reliance upon any warranty, representation, statement, Agreement or undertaking of any kind (whether negligently or innocently made) other than as expressly set out in this Agreement.
  
16.5 This Agreement shall not be modified except by written amendment duly executed by each party hereto. The terms and conditions of each contract under this Agreement may be revised upon mutual agreement of the Parties and such revision shall be in writing.

16.6 Any moneys owing to the Agency from the Insurance Company shall be paid without deduction (except for withholding tax), set off or counter-claim. In respect of tax withheld, the withholding tax certificate shall be provided to the Agency by the Company on a monthly basis.

16.7 Neither Party may assign its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of the other Party.  

16.8 Neither Party will subcontract the performance of any of the services without the prior written consent of the other Party.  This provision shall not be construed as restricting, in any manner whatsoever, the Parties’ ability to engage the services of independent contractors in the ordinary course of its business. 

16.9 Each of the provisions of this Agreement is distinct and severable, and a declaration of invalidity or unenforceability of any such provision or part thereof by a court of competent jurisdiction shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision hereof.  



IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Insurer and the Agency have caused this Agreement to be executed on the date and year first written herein above.

Signed for and on behalf of 			)
GA INSURANCE LIMITED by:			)	
		)
		)
		)
………………………….		)
Managing Director		) ________________________						)
		)
In the presence of: -		)
		)                                              
		)
………………………….		)
Advocate		) ________________________

		
																				

Sealed with the common seal of 		)	  
PATABIMA AGENCY LIMITED by:	)
		)
		)
		)
		)
		) _________________________
Director/Principal Officer		)
		)
						)
Accountant/Pata Bima Account signatory				)  ________________________
						)
						)
		)
							


















SCHEDULE ICATEGORYPOLICY NAMEMAXIMUM PERMITTED COMMISSION RATEENGINEERINGContractors All Risks20%Electronic Equipment20%Machinery Breakdown20%Machinery Consequential Loss20%Erection All Risks20%Contractors Plant & Machinery20%  FIRE DOMESTICDomestic Package20%HOCI-Domestic20%  FIRE COMMERCIALFire and Perils25%Industrial All Risks25%Fire Consequential Loss25%Stock Floater25%HOCI-Commercial25%  LIABILITYPublic Liability20%   Professional Indemnity20%Employers Liability20%Products Liability20%Contractual Liability20%Carriers Liability20%Directors & Officers Liability20%Pension Trustees Liability20%Contaminated Products20%  MARINEMarine Cargo Sea17.5%Marine Cargo Air17.5%Marine open Cover17.5%Marine Hull10.0%Goods In Transit17.5%  CATEGORYPOLICY NAME MOTORMotor Private10%Private Motor Cycle10%Motor Commercial Own Goods10%Motor Commercial Agric. Vehicles10%Motor Trade10%PSV Chauffeur Driven10%Petroleum Tankers Own Goods10%Petroleum Tankers for Hire/Reward10%Motor Commercial General Cartage10%PSV Motor Cycles10%PSV Taxi10%PSV Matatus/Buses10%Motor Commercial Special vehicles10%PSV Motor Asset10%  ACCIDENTPersonal Accident20%Group Personal Accident20%  THEFTMoney10%Burglary10%Fidelity Guarantee10%All Risks10%  WIBAWork Injury Benefits Act20%  HEALTHCAREGroup Medical Schemes10%Medical Scheme administration10%  
PACKAGE/COMBINEDSMEs Business combined20%Micro Business Combined20%Business Combined20%  
POLICY NAME CATEGORY
MISCELLANEOUSPlate Glass10%Political Violence & Terrorism10%Travel20%Tender/Bid Bond10%Security/Immigration Bond10%Custom Bond10%Performance Bond10%  
AGRICULTURALLivestock Insurance10%Green House insurance10%       


























B.1. CLAIMS SERVICE STANDARDS

1. Motor Vehicle Repairs

a) The Insurer will provide to the Agency a list of its approved motor vehicle garages and windscreen fitters and that in the event of an accident, the Agency and the insured will utilize any of these garages.

b) On the occurrence of an accident, the insured and or the Agency shall inform the Insurer of the accident at the earliest possible moment and the Insurer.
c)  Without any undue delay shall authorize the repairs and or processing of the claim.
The accident should be reported to the following staff:

i. Claims Department: Telephone No.0709626000 email: claims department motorclaims@gakenya.com 

ii. Any other person that may be appointed by the Insurance Company and notified in writing to the Agency within a day of such changes.

d) If the insured decides to undertake repairs at a garage other than those on the Insurer’s panel, and where the Insurer deems it fit, the Insurer shall pay the claim on the basis of cash in lieu of repairs.  When a vehicle is repaired on this basis, the Insurer shall continue providing comprehensive cover only when such vehicle has been confirmed satisfactorily repaired and roadworthy by the Insurer’s appointed motor assessor or by the Automobile Association of Kenya.

e) The Insurer will issue windscreen replacement letters, within one hour of receipt of a claim form via e-mail or otherwise, whenever clients suffer such loses.

f) For the purposes of a motor claim the insured shall be required to submit the following documents:

i. Claim form dully filled

ii. Copy of the driver’s identity card

iii. Copy of driver’s driving licence and

iv. Police abstract report.

g) A copy of the driver’s licence will not be a requirement if loss occurred while vehicle is parked.

h) The below schedule, subject to the qualifying note below it, shall form the basis of our timelines viz:


Activity 
Turnaround Time
Claim Opening and Registration
Claim Opening
The Insurer shall immediately open a claim file and in any case not later than 
12 hours after notification open a claim folderClaim
AcknowledgementThe Insurer shall immediately acknowledge receipt of the claim and if the claim is reported before 5pm during week days, advice on the claim reference number.Motor Claims
Appointment of Motor
AssessorsImmediate and in any case not later than 12 hours of notification after receipt of all requisite documents Receipt of Assessor’s
ReportWithin 48 hours of appointment Authorization of Repairs
Immediate and in any case not later than 2 days upon receipt of report.  

Release Letter
Immediately upon request from the insured and in any case not later than 24 hours Windscreen Claims settlement
Replacement letter shall be issued within 1 hour of reporting (for cases in Nairobi only) or a cheque to be issued within five (5) working days if a claim is fully documented.Total Loss
-Issue discharge voucher

-Issue settlement cheque
- The Insurer will within 48 hours issue a discharge voucher after receipt of an assessment report.


- The Insurer will within 5 days of receipt of an executed discharge voucher, issue the cheque or execute an RTGS in case of amount exceeding 1 million.
Theft Claims
- Appoint Investigators

- Issue discharge voucher
- Issue settlement cheque
The Insurer will appoint an investigator on the same day of reporting and within 30 days after such instructions the investigator will furnish the Insurer with report.
-  The Insurer will issue a discharge voucher within 48 hours of receipt of the investigation report.
- The Insurer will within 5 days issue a cheque on receipt of executed or execute an RTGS in case of amounts exceeding 1 million.Note:  the above timelines are subject to full disclosure of correct information and full documentation as may be required by the Insurer and any settlement will be based on our adjuster’s, investigators’ or assessors’ reports and after satisfying the Insurer.

i) On completion of repair work, the garage has instructions to call for re-inspection immediately and if the repairs are carried out satisfactorily, the Insurer will issue a release letter immediately but subject to full documentation and receipt of policy excess payment where applicable.

j) During the period of repair, the insured will monitor the repair work progress regularly to ensure timely service.

k) The Insurer and the Agency will hold underwriting and claims review meetings on a quarterly basis on dates to be agreed on mutually. The main agenda shall be to review claims services, claims trends, underwriting services and premium payment.
B.2. UNDERWRITING SERVICES STANDARD

1. Insurance Documents

a) The Agency shall submit a proposal form or risk notes as proof of every insurance cover arranged under the scheme.
b) Such document(s) shall bear the name of the person in whose name the insurance is arranged and accounting policy number allocated under the binder.
c) The said risk note and certificate shall be signed by an authorized officer of the Agency for and on behalf of the Insurer and names of authorized signatories and their specimen signatures shall be provided to the Insurer. The Insurer shall at all times be notified of any change in respect of the said signatories not later than seven days from the effective date of such change.
d) For purposes of issuing motor certificates, the Insurer shall allow the Agency to have custody of blank motor insurance certificates for issuance to clients on behalf of the Insurer provided that the Agency shall at all times keep all unused motor insurance certificates under lock & key whilst their offices are closed for business and that:
i. The specific conditions set under the Binder Agreement must be strictly observed.

ii. Any loss and/or misplacement of a certificate(s) must be reported to the Insurer in writing immediately it is discovered.

iii. On each class of motor vehicle insurance, the certificates shall be issued under the series of policy numbers allocated under the binder agreement.

iv. Once a certificate is issued the details shall be entered in the certificate declaration/return form which shall be available for inspection by our staff at any time.  Submission of the completed form shall be done in accordance with the binder agreement.

v. Replenishment of certificates with the new series shall be subject to provision of fully completed declaration forms and confirmation that all entries have matching debits.

vi. Not more than two extension certificate should be issued within a policy period i.e only two extension certificates should be allowed otherwise extra extension certificates shall be charged at Kshs. 200/= per certificate.

vii. Short period covers are excluded from the scheme.

e) The Insurer shall issue sample policy documents whose terms and conditions shall apply to all persons insured under this binder and the originals of the policy documents shall be in the custody of the Agency throughout the duration of the contract. OR 

f) The Insurer shall allocate series of policy numbers to the Agency under which cover for the individual persons or entities shall be issued and corresponding debits raised by the Insurer on receipt of the monthly schedule/bordereaux as provided under the binder.

g) The Agency may request Insurer to issue individual policy documents where special needs arise.















B.3. BUSINESS PLACING AND QUOTATIONS


Activity
ResponsibilityTime FrameInstructions to issue new policy/renewalAgencyImmediately on receipt of instructions from client.
Confirmation of cover
InsurerImmediately and in any event not later than eight (8) working hours from inception/renewal dateTelephone queriesInsurer/AgencyImmediatelyEmail queriesInsurer/AgencyWithin on 20 minutesLetter queriesInsurer/AgencyWithin two (2) working daysResolving Complaints
Insurer/AgencyWithin three (3) working days of receipt of complaintsForwarding ChequesAgencyImmediately and latest within one working day
Receipting premiumInsurer/Agency 
Immediately and latest within one working day
Queries from accountsAgencyWithin 5 working days from receipt of statement/invoiceIssuance of the policy documentInsurer/AgencyImmediately and latest within 14 daysIssuing of credit/debit noteInsurerWithin two (2) daysQuarterly ReportsInsurer5th working day of every month







2


