The Monarch Insurance Ltd &   PataBima Agency Ltd
Product Proposition
The main objective of this binder is to set forth the special provisions that shall be incorporated in the terms of the policy document that will be taken out under the General Insurance classes and also to provide guidelines to be followed by the two parties herein during the continuity of this agreement.
We propose to partner on the following products which we believe are competitively priced at the widest coverage.
MOTOR PRODUCTS
MOTOR PRIVATE
MOTOR COMMERCIAL
MOTOR CYCLE (PSV) POLICY
MOTOR CYCLE PRIVATE
MOTOR COMMERCIAL – TANKERS
Limits of Liability & Excess as per Motor Commercial (standard) above
MOTOR COMMERCIAL – TRACTORS & SPECIAL TYPE
Limits of Liability & Excess as per Motor Commercial (standard) above
PSV CHAUFFER DRIVEN & TOUR VANS
Limits of Liability (standard) above
SCHOOL BUS
Limits of Liability & Excess as per Motor Commercial (standard) above
PSV ASSET
Limits of Liability & Excess as per Motor Commercial (standard) above 
Excess
Requirements for Insuring Motor Vehicles Valuation of Newly Proposed Motor Vehicle
Valuation will be mandatory for all new cases. The Insured will be required to present the vehicle to our appointed valuer within fourteen (14) days of going on cover.
Where the vehicle is not presented for valuation within this stipulated duration the coverage issued will automatically reduce to Third party Only
Windscreen Cover will take effect after valuation of the vehicle and on receipt of the report confirming ‘No Crack’ in the windscreen
Mandatory Information & Compliance with the Law
The following client information shall be mandatory to facilitate issuance of cover ( motor certificate)
: Copy of the Insured’s Personal Identification Number (PIN), National Identity Number (ID) and Mobile Number
The following documents should be attached on each proposal form / risk note:- Copy of
the vehicle Logbook & Copy of the Insured’s Driving License
Where the logbook has not been transferred to the Insured’s name it is now a mandatory requirement that the transfer is effected within three (3) months from the date of cover inception. A copy of the duly transferred logbook must be presented to us to facilitate issuance of the final insurance certificate.
All Motor vehicles must be fitted with an operational anti-theft device (ATD) and a copy of the ATD installation certificate filed with us failure to which an excess equivalent to 20% of value Minimum Ksh. 20,000 shall apply in the event of a theft.
General Terms for Acceptability of Vehicles on Comprehensive Basis
Maximum Age of vehicle ( Motor Private & Motor Commercial ) – Fifteen (15) years
Agreed Value Basis – This will be applicable only for private vehicles up to ten
(10) Years old subject to valuation by our appointed valuer.
Rare Models – These will attract a higher premium rate of 1% above the standard rate. A listing of rare models will be availed and updated from time to time.
Minimum Sum Insured – Ksh. 500,000
Written Off Vehicles – We shall not insure vehicles that had been previously written off even if they have been satisfactorily repaired
Miraa Vehicles – We shall insure only Pickups & Land cruisers under this category of as per the following terms:
Proboxes, Succeed, Sienta & Wish – This category of vehicles will be accepted on Comprehensive basis subject to:
Duly signed Declaration for Use witnessed by an Advocate / Commissioner of Oaths
Premium Rate – We will charge 1% above the applicable Comprehensive rate
NON MOTOR PRODUCTS
1. FIRE & PERILS INSURANCE
SUMMARY OF COVER:	Loss of damage by fire, lightning, bush fire, earthquake fire and shock, explosion, storm, tempest, flood overflowing and/or bursting of water pipes and tanks of water pipes and tanks, aircraft, impact, riots, strikes, civil commotion and malicious damage and special perils.
INTEREST &
SUMS INSURED:                     
TOTAL SUM INSURED:	
SITUATION:	In any building used, owned, leased, rented, let or occupied by the insured anywhere in Kenya.
EXCESS:	Earthquake claims only – 2% of Sum Insured maximum Kshs. 5,000,000.00 at any one location.
Deductible                              
SPECIAL CONDITIONS:
Adjoining buildings clause 
Alterations and repairs clause 
Architects, Quantity surveyors and other fees clause 
Automatic reinstatement of loss clause
Petrol and mineral oil warranty no.1
Electrical clause no. III
Political & Terrorism risk extension.
Accidental error or omission
All other contents – Limit Kshs. 
Breach of conditions/ warranties clause
Bush fire
Cancellation clause – 30 days 
Capital additions clause – limit 10%
Computer system records clause
Consulting engineers fees clause 
Cost of demolition/clearance of debris clause 
Designation of property clause
Fire brigade charges
Goods in trust and/or on commission
Hazardous goods warranty
Landlord’s fixtures and fittings
Boarding clause/Loss reduction 
Misdescription clause
Municipal plans scrutiny fees clause
Reinstatement value/replacement
Reinstatement of loss clause
Other tenants clause
Public authorities clause
Lien clause
Public Utilities clause
Safe and books clause
Temporary removal of contents clause (internal & external)
85% condition of average
Payment on account clause 
MAJOR EXCLUSIONS:
Damage due to electrical breakdown or mechanical derangement.
Wear and tear or depreciation, moth or vermin
War and allied perils
Terrorism and political risks clause
Consequential losses
Rating				0.125%
2. BURGLARY INSURANCE
SUMMARY OF COVER:	Loss or damage to property arising from forcible and/or violent entry and/or exit from the premises insured.
INTEREST &
SUMS INSURED:                     	
BASIS OF 		 
VALUATION:		Reinstatement 
SITUATION:	In any building used, owned, leased, rented or occupied by the insured anywhere in Kenya.
EXCESS:			
SPECIAL CLAUSES:		
All other contents –Kshs. 200,000.00
Cancellation (30 days) clause
Hold up or threat of assault clause
Goods held in trust-Kshs 500,000.00
Other tenants clause
Reinstatement of loss clause
Reinstatement of value
Riot, strike and civil commotion
Including damage of buildings 
Temporary removal clause (internal/external)
Safe and books clause & Keys clause
24 Hour security guard and  Security alarm warranty
Loss or damage to goods in the open-Kshs 
MAJOR EXCLUSIONS:
Loss as a result of fraud or dishonesty of employees
Excluding cash, currency and cheques
Terrorism and political risks exclusion clause 
Rating				0.5%
3. ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT
COVER:       Unforeseen loss or damage to machinery declared by an Accidental cause whilst working, at rest, dismantling or Reassembly for maintenance, movement or repair
INTEREST & 
SUMS INSURED:	    1. Material damage 
      On various electronic equipment, computers and
       Accessories
    Total Sum Insured……………………….Kshs. 
GEOGRAPHICAL 
LIMITS:	    Laptops - Worldwide
	    Others    - Kenya
EXCESS: 	    Section 1- 
                              Section 2- Software- 
SPECIAL 
CLAUSES:	 
Including fire, explosion and lightning 
Including cost of reconstructing data
Including riot, strike and civil commotion
Including burglary, theft and damage occasioned thereon 
Including special perils
Including mechanical and electrical breakdown subject to satisfactory maintenance agreement with the makers/vendors
Including forces of nature eg storm, flood, hail, landslide etc.
Including transits risks 
Temporary removal
Warranty for Lightning and over-voltage protection devices
Terrorism & political risks exclusion clause
Prolongation clause
30 Days cancellation clause
Excluding damage recoverable under warranty
Excluding nuclear fission, war and kindred risks
Excluding wear, tear, defect, deterioration
BASIS OF 
VALUATION:	    Replacement for items up to 5 years old. 
Rating	    0.5%
4. MONEY
COVER:          Loss of money and damage to safes as declared.  Money deemed to include cash, currency notes, postage, revenue & NHIF stamps, postal and Money orders, uncrossed and bearer cheques.
INTEREST:	
SPECIAL
CLAUSES:	
Infidelity of employees discovered within three working days–Limit Kshs. 300,000.00
Excluding clerical or accounting errors
Including riot, strike and civil commotion
Excluding theft from unattended vehicles 
Cash records held elsewhere than in safe
Including hold-up or threat of assault 
Employee’s effect or assaults cover Kshs 20,000.00
Escort warranty Limit Kshs.1,000,000.00
Keys clause
Including loss by fire, explosion, earthquake
BASIS OF
VALUATION: 		Cash 	-	Indemnity
 			          Safe	-	Replacement
EXCESS:		 
Rating	
5. PUBLIC LIABILITY INSURANCE/PRODUCTS LIABILITY
COVER:	Legal liability in respect of accidental death, bodily injury/illness or loss or damage to property belonging to third parties including legal costs and expenses. 
BUSINESS:		
AREA			 In and adjoining all premises owned or occupied 
                             by the insured in Kenya.
LIMITS:		 Including work away from premises.
LIMITS OF	         Any one Claim	        		                  Any one Period
INDEMNITY:
General Liability Claims Kshs.                          -Unlimited	                              Food and drinks
SPECIAL 		 Associate companies
CLAUSES:	         	 Defective sanitation
 			  Delivery risks
 			  Fire and explosion Limit –As per insured limit
  First Aid clause
  Floods/Fumes/Pollution and contamination Limit 
  Kshs. 
 			  Goods held in trust Limit Kshs 
 			  Kenya jurisdiction clause
 			  Leased premises
  Lifts and hoists
  Loading and unloading
 			  Plant hired in/out
			  Machinery and plant
 			  Temporary visits abroad
   			  Car parking liability- Kshs 
 			  Cross liabilities clause
  			  Food / Beverage supplied Kshs. 
      			  Guests effects Kshs. 
    			  Property of employees Kshs. 
                              Any one person 
  Executive staff liability
  Pedal cycles-250cc
  Subrogation waiver clause
  Sports/social activities organized by the insured
Rating		0.1%
6. WORK INJURY BENEFITS ACT, 2007 
COVER:	Compensations in respect of death, bodily injury or Illness/disease to 
                   Employees as declared arising out of and in the course of employment 
                   As per provisions of the Act
BUSINESS:		
SCHEDULE:  Description 	Estimated annual of employees          Estimated No.		                                                                                             Wages/Salaries &
	                                                                                                   Other emoluments
Accountants 	                           
Cashiers 		          
Garden attendants	          
Maintenance Staff                
Chef/cooks	                        
Waiters                                    
Food & beverages                
Security guards                     
Cleaners/plumbers        
Totals			                               
BENEFITS
PAYABLE:		Death			         : 96 Months Earnings Max. Shs.4m
			Permanent Total 
                            Disablement                   : 96 Months Earnings Max. Shs.4m
Temporary Total
Disablement                  : 96 Months Earnings Max. Shs.4m
			Medical Expenses	         : Kshs. 100,000.00
			Funeral Expenses	         : Kshs. 30,000.00
AREA LIMITS:	Kenya.
SPECIAL 
CLAUSES:		
Compulsory 24 hours notification of all fatal injuries
Compulsory notification to Director of Occupational Safety 
And Health services within 7 Days of all injuries
Claims must be lodged with Employer within 12 months of 
injury or death otherwise forfeited
All claims must be settled within 90 days of intimation
Excluding war and kindred risks
Excluding injury through wilful act or caused by goods supplied or remedial treatment
Excluding claims arising due to war and associated perils
Including riot and strike	
Transportation of employee’s clause
Rating	      0.1%
7. EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY (COMMON LAW)
COVER:	Legal Liability in respect of accidental death, bodily injury or 
		Illness/disease to employees as declared arising out of and in 
                   the course of employment.
BUSINESS:    
SCHEDULE:	All Employees of the insured 
AREA LIMITS: Anywhere in Kenya including work away from premises
LIMITS OF INDEMNITY:	
AREA LIMITS:	Anywhere in Kenya including work away from premises.
SPECIAL CLAUSES:	Excluding claims arising due to breach of common law
   			Excluding claims arising due to war and associated perils
   			Excluding pneumoconiosis, asbestosis, silicosis and byssiniosis
   			Excluding liability attaching by virtue of agreement
   			Excluding war and kindred risks
Excluding injury through wilful act or caused by goods supplied or remedial treatment
Excluding liability to employees of contractors
Kenya jurisdiction clause
Including riot, strike & civil commotion
Including Transport to and from and in the course of work on Kenya Airways vehicles or hired vehicles
Recreational and sporting activities organized by or on behalf of    the insured
Signed this 18TH Day of March 2022
On Behalf of the Monarch Insurance Ltd
On Behalf of Pata Bima Agency Ltd