BINDER AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
PACIS INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(As the “Insurance Company”)
………………………………………………………………………
AND
PATA BIMA   INSURANCE AGENCY LTD
(As the “Intermediary”)
………………………………………………………………………
This Service Level Agreement is made on this 01st  day of January 2023.
BETWEEN
PACIS INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED a body corporate established under the Kenyan Laws and duly licensed as an Insurance Company pursuant to the provisions of the Insurance Act, Chapter 487 of the Laws of Kenya and having its registered office at Centenary House, 2nd floor, Off Ring Road, Westlands, Nairobi Kenya and of Post Office Box Number 1870 (00200) Nairobi (hereinafter referred to as “the Insurance Company”) which expression where the context so admits it’s successors and assigns of the one part
AND 
PATA BIMA INSURANCE AGENCY LTD Post Office Box Number P.O. Box-----------------------------------, Nairobi, and having its registered office at ---------------------------------------------------------- (hereinafter called "the intermediary” which expression shall where the context so admits include their personal representatives and assigns of the other part.
WHEREAS:
The Insurance Company is in the business of underwriting and providing various insurance and related products in Kenya.
The Insurance Company wishes to appoint and contract the Intermediary and hereby appoints and contracts the Intermediary to solicit and procure applications for insurance contracts on behalf of Insurance Company as it may from time-to-time offer and provide.
The Intermediary has represented to the Insurance Company that it has requisite skills, experience, capability and all necessary personnel and facilities and is competent to provide the services, is willing and has accepted the appointment.
The Insurance Company has reviewed the Intermediary’s capabilities and is satisfied on its ability to offer the services envisaged.
The Insurance Company and the Intermediary (each a “party” or “collectively the parties”) now wish to enter into this agreement to set out the rights and obligations of each party under the arrangement.
NOW THEREFORE in consideration of the terms and conditions herein contained, the Parties hereto agree as follows;
DEFINATIONS
In this Agreement unless the context otherwise requires, the following words and expressions shall have the following meanings;
“Agreement” means this agreement and its schedules as the same may be amended, modified, or supplemented from time to time in accordance with the provisions of this agreement.
“Agreement period” shall mean the initial period of one (1) year from the effective date unless earlier terminated. The contract shall be subject to satisfactory annual review automatically renew for further renewal periods of twelve (12) months subject to the right of either party to terminate the agreement as provided in this Agreement. 
“Commission” means the consideration payable to the Intermediary for soliciting and procuring insurance business for the Insurance Company.
 “Customers” means all users of insurance products provided by the Insurance Company.
“Premium “means the consideration for granting a policy and any definition as defined in the Insurance Act.
“Services” means the soliciting and procuring of insurance contracts by the Intermediary on behalf of the Insurance Company and such after sales services in respect of those insurance contracts.
“Effective Date” means the date of signing the document
 AGREEMENT 
It is now agreed between the parties as follows;
2.1 	APPOINTMENT 
2.1.1 	The Insurance Company appoints the Intermediary to offer the services that the Intermediary is specifically authorised to offer under this agreement on behalf of the Insurance Company.
2.1.2	It is understood by the parties that the Intermediary shall not hold out itself as an agent or representative of the Insurance Company SAVE as expressly authorised by this Agreement. The Intermediary will ensure that it conforms to all the laws, rules, regulations and statutory requirements existing in the Republic of Kenya from time to time.
2.1.3	This agreement shall take effect from the date of signing the document and will thereafter be renewed for a successive period of twelve months if it is determined that the performance was satisfactory until either parties notify the other in writing of its intention not to renew at least one month to the date of expiry or the engagement is terminated as otherwise provided herein.
2.2   NON-EXCLUSIVITY 
          The Insurance Company acknowledges that the Intermediary has entered into this contract on a non-exclusive basis and may from time to time contract other insurance companies for the provision of similar services.
LOSS RATIO
The desired claims ratio shall not exceed 50% of the Total Gross Premium written for GIB.
Where the Loss Ratios are adverse it will attract premiums loadings both on GI.
The matrix for GI under Motor Insurance will be shared on the Motor Terms below.
As for the Non-Motor the same will be discussed prior to the renewal invitations being done so that we align on the loadings as well.
RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE INTERMEDIARY
The Intermediary shall be required to comply with the following obligations in addition to all other obligations set out under this Agreement;
The Intermediary shall prospect, source and vet new business, procure and transmit applications for insurance policies to the Insurance Company for insurance and transmit premium payments in respect thereof in the manner and intervals agreed on.
The Intermediary shall issue a Risk Note as proof of every insurance arranged under this Agreement. Such documents shall bear the name of the person in whose name the insurance is arranged (herein referred to as “the insured”). The Risk Note shall be signed by an authorised officer of the Intermediary for and on behalf of the Insurance Company. The Risk Note issued by the intermediary shall form the basis of the contract between the Insured and the Insurance Company in the absence of a formal proposal form.
The Intermediary shall submit to the Insurance Company a list of authorised signatories and the specimen signatures and the Insurance Company shall at all times be notified of any change in the number and or names of the authorised signatories not later than seven (7) from the effective date of such change.
The Intermediary shall at all times keep all insurance documents provided by the Insurance Company in safe custody, preferably in a locked safe whilst their offices are closed for business.
The Intermediary shall keep safe custody of the originals of the Master Policies issued by the Insurance Company covering all persons insured under this scheme though out the duration of the Agreement.
The intermediary will request the Insurance Company, where need arises to issue individual policies for customers that may require separate policies to be tailor made and or issued to cover various risks.
The Intermediary shall provide business reports to the Insurance Company on a monthly basis by the last day of that month. These reports shall be in the form of a monthly electronic schedule containing information on all new and renewed business, individual Risk Notes and file copies of motor certificates issued. 
The Intermediary shall provide premium payment reports to the Insurance Company on a monthly basis. These reports shall be in the form of a monthly electronic schedule containing payment information on all new and renewed business bound by the intermediary. Premium in respect of all new and renewed business booked between 1st day of the current month up to the 31st day of current month will be remitted to the Insurance Company in full without any deductions on every 8th day of the subsequent month and shall be accompanied by premium payment in settlement of the monthly premium.
The Intermediary shall via email, writing or by phone report any loss/ claim to the insurance company and shall provide the relevant claim supporting documents to the Insurance Company soon after reporting the loss/ claim.
The Intermediary shall provide after sales service in respect of the insurance contracts procured.
The Intermediary shall conform to all the applicable laws and the Insurance Company guidelines that will be in forces from time to time.
The Intermediary shall promote the business and interests of the Insurance Company as contemplated by this Agreement and where possible articulate the benefits of products to policy holders.
The Intermediary shall not engage in conduct that may compromise or call into question the integrity of the Insurance Company.
The Intermediary shall deliver all requisite proposals, application documents, risk documents of any loss or other evidence of claim as is presented and filed by the insured or his beneficiary or any claimant, immediately upon receipt thereof by within a reasonable time, but not later than thirty days from the date of loss. Exceptional circumstances necessitating notification of losses beyond the 30 days will be specifically discussed with the Insurance Company on case by case basis.
The Intermediary shall not publish any advertising, issue circulars or write any letter to any publication concerning the Insurance Company without the written approval from the Insurance Company.
The Intermediary shall support the Insurance Company to deploy its wide area network and electronic administrative arrangements to the Intermediary in support of achieving high levels of efficiency and effective operation of business for mutual benefit. In this regard the Intermediary and the Insurance Company shall jointly develop streamlined business processes.
RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE INSURANCE COMPANY
The insurance Company shall be required to comply with the following obligations in addition to all other obligations set out under this agreement.
The Insurance Company shall issue master policies which will cover all persons insured under various schemes covered by this agreement.
To remit all due and outstanding commissions to the Intermediary before the close of business on the 10th day of every subsequent month for all insurance business for which the Intermediary has submitted completed proposal forms, risk notes, asset valuations and premiums remitted by the 30th day of the current month. The Insurance Company shall at all times comply and be bound by the Insurance Act (chapter 487) and all other enabling statutes thereof.
The Insurance Company shall underwrite all risks it has approved as laid down it the various insurance policies offered.
The insurance Company shall notify the Intermediary of any insurance guidelines from time to time, following appropriate consultation and the agreed new guidelines to be effected after 30 days’ notice period.
The Insurance Company will provide training to the Intermediary staff on insurance products and service levels, rate book, insurance manuals supplied to the insurance intermediary and any other resources pertinent to the proper execution of the intermediary duties.
The Insurance Company shall not publish any advertising, issue circulars or write any letter to any publication concerning the insurance intermediary without the written approval from the insurance Intermediary.
The Insurance Company shall be expected to process all claims promptly as per the SLA Agreement in place.
The Insurance Company shall register a loss and or a claim immediately the insurance Intermediary notifies it of the incident and shall acknowledge the claims notification by email including claim reference.
In the event of a claim, the Insurance Company will appoint a professional loss adjuster or assessor from a panel approved by the Insurance Company and such appointment is made immediately upon request and on provision of adequate /appropriate details and that the intermediary will be advised of the persons appointed. Such appointments are to be made to all such adjusters and assessors in an equitable basis where the relevant documents to support the claim have been availed.
The Insurance Company shall ensure that authority is given to repairs and garages as soon as possible upon receipt of the necessary claim supporting documents and not later than two days from the date of receipt of such documents.
In the event of any challenges leading to delay in giving repair authority, the insurance company will notify the Intermediary immediately and agree on the way forward.
It is mutually agreed between the parties that there may be a delay in settlement of claims relating to theft to allow for proper investigations of such claims. The delay shall however not be more than 30 days from the date of notification of such claims. Both parties agree that every effort shall be made towards finalizing the requisite investigation within the shortest time possible and that upon receipt and verification of the investigations report and full documentation, a discharge voucher will be issued within seven days. Where delays are encountered due to other intervening factors, the Intermediary shall be kept in the picture by the Insurance Company.
The Insurance Company will regularly update the Intermediary on the progress and status of each claim.
Discharge forms must reach the Intermediary within five (5) working days from the date on which all the requisite supporting documents are submitted to the Insurance Company.
All claims settlement advises (Cheques, Electronic Funds Transfers or Real-time Gross Settlement) must reach the Intermediary within fourteen 7 working days from the date on which signed discharge forms are submitted to the Insurance Company. Where the claim is to be settled using Electronic Funds Transfer or Real Time Gross settlement method, documents evidencing the transfer must be provided.
The Insurance Company will deploy its wide area network and electronic administrative arrangements to the Intermediary in support of achieving high levels of efficiency operation of business for mutual benefit. In this regard the Intermediary and the Insurance Company will jointly develop streamlined business process.
COMMISSIONS AND CONSIDERATIONS
The Commission payable by the Insurance Company for the services rendered by the Intermediary shall be calculated on the basis of the agreed rate percentage per insurance policy in line with the applicable maximums as per the Insurance Act. The Insurance Company shall pay the Intermediary at such intervals as shall be agreed with the Insurance Company.
The review of the commission payable hereunder shall be by mutual consent but shall in no case exceed those prescribed under the Insurance Act cap 487. Any such review will however not apply retrospectively. Such variation to the rates of commission that has the net effect of reduction will not be accepted by the Intermediary unless such variation is solely to comply with the laws of Kenya.
CREDIT TERMS
The credit period under this agreement will strictly be 60 days on General Business and Cash and Carry for Medical business. If payment is not received within 60 Days from inception of cover a cancellation notice will be issued in line with the terms of the policy. The instalment applicable is 40% at Inception and the balance of 60% within 60 Days. Cancellation shall be effected within 60 days from the date of inception of cover.
Right to Issue credit will be withdrawn where there is consistent delay to remit premiums to the company after the Broker has collected the premium
TERMINATION
Without prejudice to any rights of the parties, this Agreement shall terminate if either of the parties shall have served on the other in writing thirty (30) days prior written notice of termination.
The Agreement shall terminate forthwith upon occurrence of any of the following events;
If either party breaches this agreement and, with respect to any breach that is capable of cure, fails to cure such breach within 30 days of receiving written notice of such breach.
If either party becomes bankrupt or insolvent or convenes a meeting of or makes or purposes to make any arrangement or composition with its creditors or has a liquidator, receiver administrator, manager, trustee or similar officer appointed over any of its assets or either compulsory or voluntarily wound up; or
If either party ceases or threatens to cease to carry on the business for which this agreement was entered into, whatever reason.
The rights terminate this agreement given by this clause shall be without prejudice to any other party under the agreement.
This agreement shall survive termination for the purposes of enforcement of any accrued rights of the other party or enforcing any breaches thereof.
CONSEQUENCES OF TERMINATION 
Each party shall within fourteen (14) days of termination return to the other party any materials that have been supplied by such party to the other.
Each party shall within fourteen (14) days of termination reconcile its accounts and pay monies owed to the other party. Neither the expiration nor termination of this Agreement will relieve either party of any obligations that were incurred prior to such expiration or termination, including without limitation, the Intermediary’s obligation to pay accruing premium or insurance company’s obligation to pay the commission and administrative costs and expenses that are then due and owing. 
DISPUTE RESOLUTION
All disputes arising out of this agreement will be resolved through direct negotiations between the Insurance Company and the Intermediary. Any disputes not resolved through direct negotiations shall be referred to Arbitrators, one to be appointed by each party and subject to the provisions of the Arbitration Act 1995 or any other statutory replacement or modification thereof for the time being in force in Kenya.
FORCE MAJEURE
In the event that either party is prevented from performing any of its obligations under this agreement due to an act of God, fire, flood, war terrorism, failure of public utilities, injunction or act, exercise assertion or requirement of any  governmental authority, epidemic, public health emergency, destruction of facilities, insurrection, inability to obtain labour, materials, equipment, transportation, or energy sufficient to meet needs or any other cause beyond the reasonable control of the party, then the affected party’s failure to perform will be excused and the time for performance will be extended for the period of delay caused by the occurrence of Force Majeure, provided that such party has used reasonable efforts to avoid the occurrence of Force Majeure and to minimize its duration, and provided further that such party has given prompt written notice of the occurrence of Force Majeure to the other party.
The affected party shall make commercially reasonable efforts to resume performance of its obligation under this agreement as soon as possible and to whatever extent possible, including, without limitation, through the implementation of work around plans or disaster recovery plans. If the force majeure event persists for more than sixty (60) days, the other party shall have the right to terminate this Agreement forthwith.
CONFIDENTIALITY
Each party undertakes not to divulge at any time during the course of (including during negotiations) or following termination of the Agreement any confidential information relating to the services, business or affairs of the other party to any third party without the consent of the other party save as is necessary for the proper performance of its duties hereunder or as is required by the Law. In the event that a party is required by law regulation or court order to disclose any confidential information a party shall notify the party to whom the confidential information belongs of this requirement and shall restrict their disclosure to only the portion of confidential information required. The disclosing party shall exercise all reasonable efforts to obtain reliable assurance that confidential treatment will be accorded to the confidential information so disclosed.
Each party may disclose the confidential information to its employee as may be reasonably necessary or desirable provided that before such disclosure shall be made such employees are aware of the obligations of confidentiality under the Agreement and shall at all times procure compliance by such employees therewith.
INDEMNITY
Each party shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless the other, and its officers, directors, employees and agents, from and against all liability, loss costs or expense (including advocates costs) by reason of liability imposed upon the indemnified party arising out of party or any other party indemnified herein, unless caused by the sole negligence of the indemnified party.
Save as expressly stated, neither party shall be liable to the other for any special consequential or indirect damages arising out of or in connection with the contract. Without prejudice to the foregoing, any reasonable and justifiable costs/or damages incurred by the Intermediary in connection with any legal proceedings brought against the Intermediary will be borne by the Insurance Company in so far as the proceedings relate to business placed by the Intermediary with the company and if it has been proven beyond reasonable doubt of the liability of the Insurance Company for the costs and or damages.
NOTICES AND SERVICE 
13.1	Any notice or other information required or authorised by this agreement to be given by either party to the other party shall be in writing and be given by hand or sent by registered post, cable, facsimile transmission, e-mail or comparable means of communication to the other party at the address referred to in Page 1 of this agreement or as provided herein below or such other addresses as either party may from time to time notify the other party.
13.2.	Notices given by hand shall be deemed to have been duly sent upon delivery and those sent by registered post, three (3) days after posting.
13.3 	Any notice or other information sent by cable, facsimile transmission, e-mail or comparable means of communication shall be deemed to have been duly sent on the date of transmission, provided that a confirming copy is sent by registered post, official mail or hand delivered to the other party at the address referred to in page 1 of this agreement within 24 hours after transmission.
GOVERNING LAW
This agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the substantive Laws of the republic of Kenya.
GENERAL
15.1	Nothing contained in this agreement shall be construed to create the relationship of employer and employee between the insurance company and the Intermediary.
15.2 	The failure of either party to enforce or to exercise at any time or for any period any term of or any right pursuant to this Agreement shall not be construed as a waiver of any term or right and shall in no way affect the party’s right later to enforce or exercise it.
15.3 	This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement and understanding of the parties and supersedes any previous Agreement between the parties relating to the subject matter of this agreement.
15.4 	The parties agree that neither of them has been induced to enter into any contract in reliance upon any warranty, representation, statement, agreement or undertaking of any kind (whether negligently or innocently made) other than as expressly set out in this agreement.
15.5	This agreement shall not be modified except by written amendment duly executed by each party hereto. The terms and conditions of each contract under this agreement may be revised upon mutual agreement of the parties and such revision shall be writing.
15.6 	Any monies owing to the Intermediary from the Insurance Company shall be paid without deductions (except for withholding tax) set off or counterclaim. In respect of tax withheld, the withholding tax certificate shall be provided to the intermediary by the company on a monthly basis.
15.7	Neither party may assign its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of the other party.
15.8	Neither party will subcontract the performance of any services without prior written consent of the other party. This provision shall not be construed as restricting, in any manner whatsoever, the party’s ability to engage the services of independent contractors in the ordinary course of its business.
15.9	Each of the provisions of this agreement is distinct and severable, and a declaration of the invalidity or unenforceability of any such provision or party thereof by a court of competent jurisdiction shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision hereof.
15.10	This agreement may be signed in counterpart or any other means of electronic communication and each such counterparts, taken together, shall constitute one and the same agreement.
The below terms are subject to change depending on the performance of the General Insurance Book.
PACIS INSURANCE COMPANY LTD /PATA BIMA INSURANCE AGENCY COMPREHENSIVE PRIVATE CAR SCHEME FOR INDIVIDUAL AND CORPORATE CLIENTS.  
    1. Original Police Abstract Report Form 
Excess protector -0.25% minimum 5,000/- 
Political, Violence and Terrorism- 0.25% minimum 3,000/- 
Third Party, Fire & Theft - 3% minimum Kshs. 15,000/-  
Third party only - Kshs. 7,500/- 
Renewals with adverse loss ratios will have a graduated loading as follows. 
Valuation is Mandatory for all New business within 30 days of cover and vehicles not valued will be downgraded to TPO.
PACIS INSURANCE COMPANY LTD / PATA BIMA INSURANCE AGENCY COMPREHENSIVE PRIVATE CAR SCHEME FOR CLERGY.  
    1. Original Police Abstract Report Form 
Excess protector -0.25% minimum 5,000/- 
Political, Violence and Terrorism- 0.25% minimum 3,000/- 
Third Party, Fire & Theft - 3% minimum Kshs. 15,000/-  
Third party only - Kshs. 7,500/- 
Renewals with adverse loss ratios will have a graduated loading as follows. 
Valuation is Mandatory for all New business within 30 days of cover and vehicles not valued will be downgraded to TPO.
PACIS INSURANCE COMPANY LTD / PATA BIMA INSURANCE AGENCY SCHEME FOR INDIVIDUAL AND CORPORATE CLIENTS IN RESPECT OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLE – OWN GOODS.
Current valuation required at renewal; otherwise, average clause will apply in case of a loss. 
Proof of being a clergy e.g., Certification will be required on onboarding 
Renewals with adverse loss ratios will have a graduated loading as follows. 
Applicable Rates for the Clergy          
Basic rate 4% minimum Kshs 30,000/-
Excess protector 0.25% minimum Kshs 5,000
PVT Extension 0.25% minimum Kshs 3,000
PLL Kshs 250 per pax
Minimum SI 500,000 
PACIS INSURANCE COMPANY LTD / PATA BIMA INSURANCE AGENCY SCHEME FOR INDIVIDUAL AND CORPORATE CLIENTS IN RESPECT OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLE INSURANCE – GENERAL CARTAGE. 
Third Party Rates
Renewals with adverse loss ratios will have a graduated loading as follows. 
PACIS INSURANCE COMPANY LTD / PATA BIMA INSURANCE AGENCY SCHEME FOR INDIVIDUAL AND CORPORATE CLIENTS IN RESPECT OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLE INSURANCE – INSTITUTIONAL VEHICLES (SCHOOL BUS). 
Current valuation required at renewal; otherwise, average clause will apply in case of a loss. 
Renewals with adverse loss ratios will have a graduated loading as follows.  
COMESA RATES
Rating 
Private Vehicles Annual premium Kshs.7,500
Commercial Vehicles Annual Premium Kshs.10,000/-
1 – 30th day 30% 
Upto 2 months 40% 
Upto 3 months 45% 
Upto 4 months 50% 
Upto 5 months 65% 
Upto 6 months 70% Over 6 months Charge full premium 
Plus 
Kshs.400 per person medical 
Kshs.1,000 per card 
Important note 
Yellow card cover can only be issued to vehicles that are insured by Pacis and the period of cover for the yellow card MUST not go beyond the period of the local cover 
yellow card is a third-party cover only. 
Clients requesting for comprehensive cover should be charged an additional premium and special conditions imposed on the cover 
SPECIAL VEHICLES (AGRICULTURAL & FORESTRY VEHICLES) 
These include tractors, harvesters, etc. 
Optional Riders 	  	  
Excess Protector - 0.5% of the Sum Insured minimum Kes 5,000 
Political Violence, Terrorism & Sabotage (PVTS) - 0.5% of the Sum Insured minimum Kes 5,000 
Personal Accident for designated driver (Kes 250,000 for death and PTD) - Kes 500  
SPECIAL VEHICLES (AMBULANCE, HEARSE & FIRE FIGHTERS) 
Optional Riders 	  	  
Excess Protector - 0.5% of the Sum Insured minimum Kes 5,000 
Political Violence, Terrorism & Sabotage (PVTS) - 0.5% of the Sum Insured minimum Kes 5,000 
Personal Accident for designated driver (Kes 250,000 for death and PTD) - Kes 500  
MOTORCYCLE (INSTITUTIONAL NON-PSV). 
Optional Riders 	  	  
Political Violence, Terrorism & Sabotage (PVTS) 	- 0.25% of the Sum Insured minimum Kes 3,000 
Personal Accident for designated driver (Kes 250,000 for death and PTD) - Kes 500  
MOTOR COMMERCIAL (PSV - CHAUFFER DRIVEN- TOUR VANS). 
Optional Riders 	  	  
Excess Protector - 0.25% of the Sum Insured minimum Kes 5,000 
Political Violence, Terrorism & Sabotage (PVTS) - 0.25% of the Sum Insured minimum Kes 5,000 
PLL @ 500/PAX 
Personal Accident for designated driver (Kes 250,000 for death and PTD, maximum two drivers per incident).  – Kshs.1,000/-
   Renewals with adverse loss ratios will have a graduated loading as follows. 
MOTOR TRADE (ROAD RISKS ONLY) 
This policy shall be underwritten on a per-plate basis. 
	Optional Riders 	  	  
Political Violence, Terrorism & Sabotage (PVTS) - 0.5% of the Sum Insured minimum Kes 5,000 
Renewals with adverse loss ratios will have a graduated loading as follows.
NON-MOTOR TERMS.
PACIS INSURANCE COMPANY LTD / PATA BIMA INSURANCE AGENCY LTD SCHEME FOR INDIVIDUAL AND CORPORATE CLIENTS IN RESPECT OF INSURANCE OF DOMESTIC PACKAGE INSURANCE. 
	PREMIUM RATES 	:  
	EXTENSIVE CLAUSES:  	 	 
Cancellation notice – 30 days 
All risks section Single article clothing/personal effects limit – Kshs. 30,000/= unless specifically insured 
Impact Damage 
Valuation of jewelry items valued above Kshs. 30,000/= 
Locked car warranty 
85% average Condition 
Adjoining building clause 
Including damage by falling aerials, telecom masts, and other aerial objects. 
Alternative accommodation – 15% of building (or contents where building is not covered) sum insured. 
Breach of conditions clause 
Bush fire 
Debris Removal cost Clause – Kshs. 100,000/= 
Contents Temporarily in the Open-Limited to Kshs. 20,000/= , Excess – Kshs. 1,000/= 
Hold – Up / Robbery with Violence 
Petrol and Mineral Oil Warranty 
Terrorism Exclusion Clause 
Earthquake Excess – 2%, Max Kshs. 5,000,000/= 
Mortgage Clause (Where Applicable) 
Capital additions clause – 10% 
Landlord’s Fixtures & fittings clause 
Malicious damage clause 
Misdescription clause 
Including storm, tempest or flood damage to perimeter walls 
Reinstatement clause (buildings) 
Riot strike and civil commotion clause 
subrogation waiver clause 
Temporary removal clause (internal & external) 
Tenants clause either with insured as tenant or the insured as owner. 
Un-occupancy 7 days for contents and 30days for buildings, otherwise – for more days-prior advice and security arrangements in force. 
Jurisdiction clause – Kenya 
Excess on section C - 10% of each and every loss minimum Kshs. 2,500/- 32. Fire brigade 
Municipal council fees 
Landslide and landslips 
Professional fees (Architects, QS, Engineers) Minimum Premium: Kshs    5,000/- 
NB: 
Rates applicable to building of first-class construction only   otherwise refer to Pacis for rating 
Maximum sum insured Kshs 50,000,000. Any sum insured above this to be referred to Pacis for rating 
PREMIUM RATES	: 
MINIMUM PREMIUMS – KSHS.5,000	
BUSINESMAN COMBINED RATES
MAXIMUM DISCOUNT: 7.5% BASED ON THE RISK, SUMS INSURED AND NUMBER OF SECTIONS 
MINIMUM PREMIUM PER SECTION – KSHS.5,000/-
STUDENT ON ATTACHMENT PERSONAL ACCIDENT
Premium Schedule
Note:
Funeral expenses are payable within 48 hours.
Death benefit for children below 18 years is limited to a maximum of Ksh. 100,000
Premium includes taxes
NON-STUDENT PA.
Premium Schedule
CHILDREN
Note:	
Applicable for clerical and administrative (non-manual) occupations
Funeral expenses are payable within 48 hours.
Death benefit for children below 18 years is limited to a maximum of Ksh. 100,000
Children below 5 years are covered for road risks only
Premium includes taxes
Who can be covered:
Students between the age of 18 to 65 years on attachment
Persons below the age of 18 can enjoy cover under their parents/guardian’s policy
Permanent Kenyan residents
PROFFESSIONAL INDEMNITY (PI’s) COVERS.
a). PROFFESSIONAL INDEMNITY (PI) - SURVEYORS
Cover Limits and Premium Options (Including Levies)
Signing up
Complete the proposal form available at our website or obtain one from your intermediary 
Pay your premium to the company through the available listed forms of payment.
Send your completed proposal form together with your Identity card or company registration certificate as appropriate.
b). PROFFESSIONAL INDEMNITY (PI) – LAWYERS.
Cover Limits and Premium Options (Including Levies)
Signing up
Complete the proposal form available at our website or obtain one from your intermediary 
Pay your premium to the company through the available listed forms of payment.
Send your completed proposal form together with your Identity card or company registration certificate as appropriate.
c). PROFFESSIONAL INDEMNITY (PI)- DOCTORS.
Doctor Categories
Cover Limits and Premium Options (Including Levies)
Policy Excess
This policy is subject to an excess of 10% each and every loss minimum Kes. 50,000.00
Signing up
Complete the proposal form available at our website or obtain one from your intermediary 
Pay your premium to the company through the available listed forms of payment.
Send your completed proposal form together with your Identity card or company registration certificate as appropriate.
e). PROFFESIONAL INDEMNITY (PI)- ACCOUNTANTS.
Cover Limits and Premium Options (Including Levies)
Signing up
Complete the proposal form available at our website or obtain one from your intermediary 
Pay your premium to the company through the available listed forms of payment.
Send your completed proposal form together with your Identity card or company registration certificate as appropriate.
f). PROFFESSIONAL INDEMNITY (PI)- ENGINEERS.
Cover Limits and Premium Options (Including Levies)
Signing up
Complete the proposal form available at our website or obtain one from your intermediary 
Pay your premium to the company through the available listed forms of payment.
Send your completed proposal form together with your Identity card or company registration certificate as appropriate.
Any class or coverage not captured must be referred to U/W Manager for rating: -
Claim Handling Procedures. 
Notification 
Upon being notified of any circumstances likely to give rise to a claim, ACENTRIA   Insurance Brokers Ltd. shall make thorough enquiry of such 
circumstances from the insured and thereafter notify Pacis Insurance as soon as practically possible.  
ACENTRIA   Insurance Brokers Ltd. will then endeavour to obtain the relevant documents to support the claim and submit the same to Pacis Insurance 
Appointment of Loss Adjustment Agents 
In the event of non-motor claim, Pacis Insurance will appoint a professional  
loss adjustment agent (i.e. Loss adjuster, Loss Assessor or Investigator).         Such 
appointment will be 	made within one working day of notification of the  claim. 
With respect to Motor Insurance claims, Pacis Insurance shall appoint an assessor from the panel. The assessor will have authority to instruct repair agents (garages) to commence repairs within three (3) days provided the Insured has availed a duly completed claim form, police abstract and copy of the driver’s license, if applicable. 
Motor Vehicle Theft Claims 
To allow for proper investigation of Motor Theft Claims, settlement may be delayed for 14 days from the date of notification upon the expiry of which and if the vehicle is not recovered, a Claim Discharge Voucher must be issued within 7 working days. 
Claim Settlement & Basis of settlement 
a). Pacis Insurance undertakes to settle any admissible claims within 14 working days of receipt of a Claim Acceptance Form or Discharge Voucher duly executed by the insured or their legal representative. 
General notes on all motor claims as below. 
b). i). Agreed value subject to valuation for the first 6 months. Thereafter subject to 15% depreciation on a pro rata basis on total loss and theft claims.       
 ii). For zero mileage units- Agreed value on the first year and thereafter as above. 
iii). Annual valuation is mandatory at inception of new business, financed units and renewals with prior claims.         
iv). Free valuation for renewals every year otherwise Depreciation of 15% to apply. 
PREMIUM WARRANTY
Premium payment clause: 
IT IS WARRANTED that all premiums due to Pacis Insurance Co. Ltd under this binder agreement are paid within 60 days from Inception of policy. If the premiums due under this agreement have not been so paid to Pacis Insurance Co. Ltd by the 60th day from the inception of the respective policies (and, in respect of instalment premiums, by the date they are due), Pacis Insurance Co. Ltd shall have the right to cancel the respective policy under this agreement by notifying the Insured via the intermediary in writing. In the event of cancellation, premium is due to Pacis Insurance Co. Ltd on a pro rata basis for time on risk, but the full contract premium shall be payable to Pacis Insurance Co. Ltd in the event of a loss or occurrence prior to the date of termination which gives rise to a valid claim under this contract. It is agreed that Pacis Insurance Co. Ltd shall give 7 days prior notice of cancellation to the Insured via the intermediary. If premium due is paid in full to Pacis Insurance Co. Ltd before the notice period expires, notice of cancellation shall automatically be revoked. If not, the policy shall automatically terminate at the end of the notice period
Signed by and on behalf of PACIS INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Underwriting Manager……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
Signature……………………………………………………………………….……………… Date …………………………………………….
Claims Manager……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
Signature……………………………………………………………………………………… Date ………………………………………………..
Head of Commercial…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
Signature………………………………………………………………………………………… Date ………………………………………………..
Head of Finance and Strategy…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
Signature………………………………………………………………………………………… Date ………………………………………………..
Managing Director……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
Signature……………………………………………………………………………………………Date ……………………………………………..
Signed by and on behalf of: PATA BIMA INSURANCE AGENCY LTD .
Name …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….
Designation………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
Signature…………………………………………………………………………………………… Date ……………………………………………..
Witness………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………......
Signature………………………………………………………………………………………………Date …………………………………………..